---
title: "WHO postpones inspection in Russia on registration of Sputnik V"
description: The commission was supposed to arrive in Russia on March 7. A new date will be set later, the WHO said.
date: 2022-03-16T21:25:19+03:00
lastmod: 2022-03-16T21:25:19+03:00
images:
- https://apostle.rezzamula.com/img/C3zJIgu.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Petr Kovalev / TASS'
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Ilya Furseev
tags:
- WHO
- Sputnik V
- coronavirus
- certification
categories:
- society
stories:
---

The World Health Organization (WHO) has postponed the inspection of the production of the Russian coronavirus vaccine Sputnik V indefinitely due to technical difficulties. This was [stated](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0eiBIcD7bI8) by WHO Assistant Director General Mariangela Simao.

“We were supposed to start inspections in Russia from March 7, but these inspections were postponed to a later date,” she said.

Shimao cited "limited flight options" to Russia and the situation with "finance and credit cards" as reasons. According to her, these issues were discussed with Russian partners, and "new dates will be set as soon as possible."

Russia submitted an application to the WHO for accelerated registration of Sputnik V in October 2020. In September 2021, the approval process was suspended. Then the WHO inspection found violations at one of the factories where the drug is produced. Later, the Kremlin reported that all violations at the enterprise had been eliminated.

In October 2021, WHO resumed the process of approving Sputnik V, but Russia did not immediately transfer the necessary documents. As Dmitry Peskov, the presidential press secretary, explained , the parties "had a different understanding" of what information and how to provide. He noted that Russia is gradually adapting to these requirements and hopes for approval of the drug in the "foreseeable future."

In January of this year, Minister of Health Mikhail Murashko announced that Moscow had submitted all the necessary documents to the WHO. “All the data [on the Sputnik V vaccine] has been transferred to WHO, the dossier has been formed, we are waiting for their decision, we expect a visit in the first quarter, in February,” the minister said.