---
title: "Life on autopilot: why we do so many things without thinking"
description: 'Have you ever done something without thinking? Many are engaged in routine activities with minimal cognitive effort. Psychologists call this "automaticity." Understanding how it affects life.'
date: 2022-04-18T02:19:36+08:00
lastmod: 2022-04-18T02:19:36+08:00
images:
- https://apostle.rezzamula.com/img/OAtAWHA.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Unsplash'
width: 1200
height: 750
authors:
- Semyon Bashkirov
tags:
- culture patterns
- how does it work
categories:
- social
draft: false
---

## Where does automation come from?

People train habits to cope with routine tasks in different areas of life - for example, going to work or driving a car. In such situations, it is as if the autopilot is turned on. When you go outside, you do not need to think about how to move your legs and step over puddles on the road. This behavior is [well studied by the brain](https://doi.org/10.3389/fnhum.2015.00246) , so such actions are characterized by a high level of automaticity.

## The convenience of automaticity
Doing things automatically can be helpful. For example, it enables the brain to focus on more complex concepts without being distracted. Let's explore how automation makes life easier.

### Efficiency
By switching to automatic mode, people can function quickly and efficiently in their daily lives. Imagine how busy your day would be if you had to carefully memorize and think about how to walk around the neighborhood to get to the store, or how to drive through the city to get to work.

### Comfort in familiar conditions
Automaticity also makes people feel comfortable in standard situations. Researchers in the International Encyclopedia of Social and Behavioral Sciences note : “When we walk into a grocery store, we automatically know how things should be. We go into the store, take a trolley, select products from the shelf, stand in line at the cashier, who takes money from us for groceries, and go home.” It is standard, typical actions that can maintain the confidence and comfort of everyday life.

## Risks of automaticity

Automatic thinking can be a hidden danger in many areas of life, from costly mistakes at work to everyday dangers, starting with the busy street you have to cross every morning. Because these activities become routine, a person may not have time to react to an unexpected change, such as a car running a red light.

###  Mindfulness

Mindfulness is one of the tactics that helps in the fight against automaticity. It includes introducing novelty and changing the daily routine. For example, a 2021 study found that rotating nurses across departments leads to increased job satisfaction and engagement.

In order not to force an employee to do the same thing throughout the day, employers can vary the tasks. For example, a bank clerk may periodically move from interacting with customers to working with data. Switching attention breaks routine and helps get people off autopilot.

### Double check

Some professionals, such as medical professionals, use a system of verbal verification where important information is repeated to a witness. And pilots involve several senses at once in the verification process. They read the checklist items out loud, visually inspect each one, and then physically touch each control or sensor. Such a change of actions fights automaticity and trains attention to potential problems and errors.