---
title: "How the US creates mutant trees to combat air pollution"
description: 'An American startup creates genetically modified trees to reduce carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere. We tell you what you need to know about it'
date: 2022-04-07T14:30:33+03:00
lastmod: 2022-04-07T14:19:44+03:00
images: 
- https://apostle.rezzamula.com/img/Pj8CrBa.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Shutterstock'
width: 1200
height: 750
authors:
- Anna Arbuzova
tags:
categories:
- economy
draft: false
---

## What's happening

- Plants are known to release oxygen and absorb carbon dioxide during photosynthesis. But at the same time, the reverse process of photorespiration proceeds - the absorption of oxygen and the release of carbon dioxide.
- In an attempt to solve this problem , the Living Carbon team is creating poplars with pumpkin and green algae DNA to slow down photorespiration and trap CO2 emissions .
- Through genetic engineering, Living Carbon also taught poplar trees to absorb less metals. This makes the wood more durable and helps it retain carbon dioxide longer. Such trees will be able to grow on soil with a high concentration of heavy metals.
- To evaluate the results, Living Carbon weighed the trees and analyzed how much aboveground biomass had accumulated over 21 weeks. It turned out that genetically modified poplars grow 53% faster, and also photosynthesize and absorb carbon better than ordinary trees.
- Living Carbon warns that their genetically modified seedlings are grown in a greenhouse under strictly controlled conditions. If the same trees are planted outdoors, the results may differ.
- At the same time, Living Carbon is already working with private companies and has planted more than 600 trees in partnership with the University of Oregon.

## What does it mean

Carbon dioxide is the main greenhouse gas involved in global warming. It accounts for about ¾ of all emissions. It can linger in the atmosphere for thousands of years.

In 2021, global CO2 emissions from industrial production [reached](https://www.iea.org/reports/global-energy-review-co2-emissions-in-2021-2) their highest level ever, at 36.3 Gt. This is 6% more than in 2020. Carbon dioxide is mainly emitted from the burning of [organic materials](https://cleanenergynews.ihsmarkit.com/research-analysis/global-co2-emissions-to-rise-by-49-in-2021-global-carbon-proje.html). 40% from coal processing, 32% from oil and 21% from natural gas.

Trees can reduce the amount of carbon dioxide. A typical mature tree absorbs about 21 kg of CO 2 per year. For 100 years of life, one tree can [absorb](https://www.viessmann.co.uk/heating-advice/how-much-co2-does-tree-absorb#:~:text=How%20much%20CO2%20can%20a,around%20a%20tonne%20of%20CO2.) about a ton of CO 2 . To offset all man-made emissions, 40 billion trees need to be planted every year. This is almost impossible, so genetically modified trees can help fight the problem of global warming.