---
title: "The premises of the Rosselkhoznadzor caught fire in the Kursk region after shelling"
description: From the side of Ukraine, mortars fired at a checkpoint on the Russian border in the Kursk region, as a result of which the premises of the Rosselkhoznadzor caught fire. There are no injured or dead, the head of the region said
date: 2022-04-24T00:29:16+08:00
lastmod: 2022-04-24T00:29:16+08:00
images:
- https://apostle.rezzamula.com/img/ePTvjpf.jpg
caption: "Photo: Alexey Sukhorukov / RIA Novosti"
width: 1200
height: 750
authors:
- Victoria Tyutina
tags:
- ukraine
- shelling
- kursk region
categories:
- politics
stories:
---

The premises of the Rosselkhoznadzor in the Kursk region caught fire after shelling from Ukraine. This was [announced](https://t.me/gubernator_46/391) by the head of the region Roman Starovoit in Telegram.

“Today [April 23] mortars again fired at the checkpoint on the border in the Glushkovsky district of the Kursk region from the Ukrainian side. As a result, the premises of the Rosselkhoznadzor caught fire,” he wrote.

Starovoit added that no one was injured as a result of the incident, the border guards and the military keep the situation under control.

This is not the first shelling of a checkpoint in the Kursk region reported by local authorities. So, on April 13, a border checkpoint in the Korenevsky district of the region was fired from small arms. Prior to this, on April 9, Starovoit announced mortar shelling from the Ukrainian side of the border checkpoint near the village of Elizavetovka, Glushkovsky district.

Three days earlier, on April 6, Starovoit announced an attempt to fire mortars at the positions of border guards in the area of ​​the Sudzha border crossing, but the shells themselves did not reach Russian territory. At the end of March, the governor reported the shelling of the border checkpoint in the village of Tetkino. No one was injured as a result of the shelling.

The region has been subject to a yellow terrorist threat level since April 11 . Starovoit explained that this decision was made because of the risk of "provocations by Ukrainian nationalists." In the Kursk region, checkpoints were established with military and police officers and patrols were stepped up.

In addition to the Kursk region, the yellow level of the terrorist threat was introduced in the Belgorod and Bryansk regions, in two border regions of the Voronezh region, in the north of Crimea and in several regions of the Krasnodar Territory.

The Bryansk region borders on the Chernihiv and Sumy regions of Ukraine, and the Kursk and Belgorod regions border on the Kharkov and Sumy regions of Ukraine. The Voronezh Region borders on the Lugansk People's Republic (LPR).
