---
title: "Britain imposed sanctions against Evraz"
description: The British Foreign Office explained that Evraz produces a significant part of the wheels for trains and almost all the rails in Russia, and the railway is vital for Moscow, as it carries military supplies to Ukraine
date: 2022-05-06T00:55:54+08:00
lastmod: 2022-05-06T00:55:54+08:00
images:
- https://apostle.rezzamula.com/img/EpHkZf0.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Donat Sorokin / TASS'
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Maria Lisitsyna
- Nadezhda Sintsova
tags:
- Evraz
- Roman Abramovich
- United Kingdom
- sanctions against Russia
categories:
- politics
stories:
---

Britain has imposed sanctions against the steel company Evraz, [according](https://www.gov.uk/government/news/russia-uk-sanctions-major-manufacturer-of-russian-steel) to the website of the British Foreign Office.

“The metallurgical and mining company operates in sectors of strategic importance for the Russian government,” the department explained. They added that Evraz produces 28% of all railway wheels in Russia and 97% of rails. “This is vital as Russia uses the railroad to transport military supplies and troops to the front lines in Ukraine,” the release said.

A request send to an Evraz representative.

The largest, but not controlling shareholder of the company is Roman Abramovich, who has 28.64%. Also, significant shares in the company belong to Alexander Abramov (19.32%), Alexander Frolov (9.65%), Gennady Kozovoy (5.74%) and Maxim Vorobyov (3.01%).

On March 10, Abramovich fell under British sanctions, which include freezing assets and a ban on entry into the country. At the same time, the UK Financial Conduct Authority announced that it had temporarily suspended Evraz's listing on the London Stock Exchange.

After that , all non-executive directors, including Frolov and Abramov, [left the company's board of directors](https://www.evraz.com/en/news-and-media/press-releases-and-news/shanges-in-the-composition-of-the-board-of-directors/).

Against this backdrop, Evraz announced that it was suspending the spin-off of Raspadskaya, Russia's largest coal producer (Evraz holds 93.24% of voting shares), into a separate company. In early April, it became known that the company had completely abandoned this project. Evraz then explained that in the context of sanctions against Russia and Russian retaliatory measures, the transaction on Raspadskaya "has become technically impossible."