---
title: "The Ministry of Defense reported that Bayraktar TB2 drone was shot down near Zmeiny Island"
description: Air defense systems shot down two more drones - over Malaya Kamyshevakha and Seversk. Russian artillery destroyed “up to 190 personnel” of the Armed Forces of Ukraine during the day
date: 2022-05-05T20:46:26+03:00
lastmod: 2022-05-05T20:46:26+03:00
images:
- https://apostle.rezzamula.com/img/ZO7WCdO.jpg
caption: 'Bayraktar TB2, archive photo (Photo: Zuma / TASS)'
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Evgenia Voropaeva
tags:
- Ministry of Defense
- Ukraine
- military operation
categories:
- politics
stories:
- Military operation in Ukraine
---

Russian air defense systems shot down a Bayraktar TB2 unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) near Zmeiny Island in the Black Sea, the Defense Ministry said. During the day, two more drones were shot down: over the settlements of Malaya Kamyshevakha (Kharkiv region) and Seversk of the Luhansk People's Republic (there is a settlement with this name in the Donetsk region).

In the Seversk region, high-precision air-launched missiles destroyed two "munitions depots of nationalists", and in the area of ​​​​the village of Loskutovka (Luhansk region), the command post of the 24th separate mechanized brigade of the Armed Forces of Ukraine was hit, the ministry said. “Operational-tactical and army aviation of the Russian Aerospace Forces hit 45 military facilities of Ukraine during the day. Among them are two command posts, 41 areas of concentration of manpower and Ukrainian military equipment, as well as a warehouse of missile and artillery weapons in the Voevodka region of the Luhansk People's Republic," the Defense Ministry said in a statement.

The missile forces hit an artillery battery near the village of Zarozhnoye in the Kharkiv region, a battery of the Uragan MLRS near Nikolaev, as well as "four areas of concentration of manpower and military equipment."

Artillery units destroyed up to 190 personnel and 43 pieces of weapons and military equipment, the Defense Ministry added.

In total, since the beginning of the military operation in Ukraine, the following have been destroyed:

- 149 aircraft;
- 112 helicopters;
- 729 UAVs;
- 288 anti-aircraft missile systems;
- 2846 tanks and other armored fighting vehicles;
- 327 installations of multiple launch rocket systems;
- 1323 field artillery and mortar guns;
- 2662 units of special military vehicles.

The military operation began on 24 February. On April 19, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov announced the "beginning of the next stage" of hostilities. In the Ministry of Defense, the goal of the second phase of the operation was to take Donbass and Southern Ukraine under control.

Martial law is in effect in Ukraine, President Volodymyr Zelensky announced the severance of diplomatic relations with Russia.

Подробнее на РБК:
https://www.rbc.ru/politics/05/05/2022/6274062b9a794727845a3fa0?from=from_main_5