---
title: "Scientists from MIPT Russia have developed a new tool for collecting biomaterial"
description: 'Russian scientists figured out how to collect biomaterials using a marker rod. This method can be applied even in space. What you need to know about the study'
date: 2022-04-18T16:00:59+03:00
lastmod: 2022-04-18T15:58:23+03:00
images:
- https://apostle.rezzamula.com/img/FvAKD6O.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Unsplash'
width: 1200
height: 750
authors:
- Anna Arbuzova
tags:
- discoveries
- implementation
- coronavirus pandemic
- shorts
categories:
- innovation
draft: false
---

## What's happening

- A group of scientists from the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology and Skoltech [have developed](https://zanauku.mipt.ru/2022/04/13/sterzhen-flomastera-okazalsya-otlichnym-probootbornikom-dlya-meditsinskih-tselej/) samplers to collect biomaterials from a porous material that is used to create felt-tip pens. The sampler is a consumable item for collecting biosamples. Usually this is a cotton swab, which is used to take a swab from the nose or throat.
- The sampler proposed by the scientists is a rod made of purified and compressed low-density polypropylene fibers.
- Biological samples collected on the sampler can be stored at room temperature and do not require special conditions of detention. It can even be used in space.
- The sampler does not need any additional tools to collect and store samples.
- It can be used in mass spectrometric analysis without additional preparation. Mass spectrometric analysis is a study to determine the concentration of components in a substance.
- Stanislav Pekov, Associate Professor of the Department of Molecular and Biological Physics at the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, a researcher at the Skoltech Laboratory, says that the developed sampler is an easy way to collect biological samples by simply dipping it into a liquid or swiping it across a surface.

## What does it mean

Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the demand for samplers is on the rise. According to the American research company Research and Markets, in 2021 the size of the market for collection kits for the detection of COVID-19 [was](https://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/5312188/covid-19-sample-collection-kits-market-share#:~:text=The%20COVID%2D19%20Sample%20Collection%20Kits%20Market%20was%20estimated%20to,at%20%2412.8%20Billion%20in%202021.) $12.83 billion. It is expected that by 2028 the volume will grow to $16.56 billion.

All samples of biological materials require different conditions of temperature, humidity, pressure and storage time. If the sampler violates the conditions for containing biosamples, then the results of the study may be incorrect.

[About 70%](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3428256/) of all errors in laboratory diagnostics are incorrect transportation, storage and preparation for analysis. According to the Ministry of Health , about 40% of tests for COVID-19 give an erroneous result precisely because of poor-quality material sampling. Therefore, a new sampler can solve the problem of storing biomaterials and reduce the percentage of erroneous results.