---
title: "Kommersant learned about the shutdown of breweries due to DDoS attacks"
description: Prior to this, it became known about the difficulties with shipment from alcohol producers due to a failure in the unified accounting system caused by hacker attacks. According to Kommersant, factories have suspended work due to a lack of storage capacity.
date: 2022-05-06T01:11:20+08:00
lastmod: 2022-05-06T01:11:20+08:00
images:
- https://apostle.rezzamula.com/img/akZxwKy.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Valery Sharifulin / TASS'
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Evgenia Voropaeva
- Anna Levinskaya
tags:
- beer
- alcohol
- EGAIS
- DDos attacks
- breweries
categories:
- business
stories:
---

Several breweries stopped production due to failures in the operation of the Unified State Automated Alcohol Accounting Information System (EGAIS) caused by DDoS attacks, Kommersant writes with reference to market participants. According to them, on May 5, the Moscow Brewing Company (MPK) suspended its work - it operates a plant with a capacity of 800 million liters per year in Mytishchi and produces beer under the brands Zhiguli Barnoe, Khamovniki, Bavaria and others. The company told the publication that in recent days they have “experienced difficulties” in production and shipment.

A Kommersant source said that the stoppage of production at the MPK could have occurred due to a lack of free storage capacity. One of the interlocutors of the publication said that other large brewing companies could also stop production.

Rosalkogolregulirovanie (RAR) told RBC that EGAIS is operating normally. “At the same time, the system’s responses about fixing documents may come to some market participants at extended intervals due to the high load on the providers’ channels,” they added.

According to the interlocutor of Kommersant in the brewing market, the restoration of work will require time and the participation of PAP specialists. Otherwise, production stoppage is possible due to stockpiling. Problems remain on the side of some large customers who have not yet restored the system.

Earlier, Vedomosti reported that during the first May holidays, alcohol producers and distributors could not ship products due to a large-scale failure in the EGAIS. The “team of cybersecurity enthusiasts” Disbalanser, which supports Ukraine, declared involvement in cyber attacks, calls to attack the system’s servers were also posted on the resources of the “IT Army of Ukraine”. Among the targets, the hackers indicated the addresses egais.ru, service.egais.ru and check.egais.ru.

An employee of a strong alcohol company told Vedomosti that the attacks began on May 2. According to the source, due to a failure, factories could not accept tanks with alcohol, and customers could not receive finished products that had already been delivered. At the same time, on the morning of May 4, EGAIS informed market participants that the attacks had ceased. Igor Kosarev, President of the Union of Producers of Alcoholic Products, confirmed that the situation had stabilized. However, problems began at the Fort wine trading company on May 4, its executive director Alexander Lipilin said: from 11:00 to 16:00, the supply of products to retail chains and restaurants was actually disrupted.