---
title: "U.S. removes copyright deals from sanctions against Russia"
description: Under the new license, Russian citizens and organizations are allowed to apply for, obtain and contest intellectual property rights, including patents and trademarks
date: 2022-05-06T01:04:21+08:00
lastmod: 2022-05-06T01:04:21+08:00
images:
- https://apostle.rezzamula.com/img/NBtFfoa.jpg
caption: 'Photo: Mark Humphrey / AP'
width: 1200
height: 675
authors:
- Maria Lisitsyna
tags:
- US Treasury
- sanctions against Russia
- Ukraine
- intellectual property
- copyright
- patents
- trademark
categories:
- politics
stories:
- sactions war
---

The US Treasury has issued a general [license](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/126/russia_gl31.pdf) that excludes transactions related to intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, from anti-Russian sanctions.

According to the document, it is allowed to apply for a patent, trademark, copyright or other form of intellectual property, their direct receipt and renewal of rights. In addition, the general license covers filing and litigation in case of infringement of intellectual property rights.

At the same time, the document does not cancel the restrictions, according to which Russian institutions that have fallen under the sanctions cannot open or use correspondent accounts, including the Central Bank, the National Welfare Fund (NWF) and the Ministry of Finance.

The United States has previously issued general licenses to ease sanctions imposed since the start of the operation in Ukraine. So, at the end of February, the Ministry of Finance included organic and inorganic fertilizers, seeds, products, bottled water, animal feed, food additives and vitamins, medicines and equipment in the list of goods that are not subject to sanctions. After the publication of this license, the United States imposed new sanctions against Russia, therefore, on March 24, the Ministry of Finance issued a clarifying license, which stated, among other things, that operations with goods from the list are prohibited if the Central Bank, the FNB, the Russian Ministry of Finance or other sub-sanctioned institutions.

In early April, the US issued a license that allowed Russian citizens and sanctioned companies to use communications services, including instant messengers, social networks and file storage. The easing also includes the paid versions of Zoom and Dropbox.

In addition, the United States removed telecommunications and Internet equipment from sanctions.